transcript
raise your right hand. do you solemnly swear to tell the truth the whole truth and nothing but the truth so help you god. please be seated. correct wrong here now under oath. and I would just note to members. you will be recognized by seniority for a period up to 7 minutes. and again it is the intent to move to a closed session no later than 1:00 PM with that director Comey you recognize you have the floor for as long as you might need. thank you Mister chairman ranking member Warner members of the committee thank you for inviting me here to testify today. I've submitted my statement for the record I'm not going to repeat it here this more. I thought I would just offer some very brief introductory remarks and then I would welcome your questions. when I was appointed FBI director in 2013. I understood that I served at the pleasure of the president. even though I was appointed to a 10 year term. which Congress created in order to underscore the importance of the FBI being outside of politics in independent. I understood that I could be fired by a president for any reason or for no reason at all. and all fun mark made that night when I learned that I've been fired. for that reason I merely came home as a private citizen. but then the explanations the shifting explanations. confused me and increasingly concerned me. they can feel. because the president that I have had multiple conversations about my job. both before and after he took office. and he had repeatedly told me I was doing a great job and he hoped I would stay. and I had repeatedly assured him that I did intend to stay and serve out the remaining 6 years of my term. he told me repeatedly that he had talked to lots of people about me. excluding our current Attorney General. and have learned that I was doing a great job. and that I was extremely well liked by the FBI workforce. so confused me. when I saw on television. the president saying that he actually fired me because of the Russian investigation. and learned again from the media. that he was telling private leave other parties. that my firing had relieved great pressure on the Russian investigation. I was also confused by the initial explanation was offered publicly. that I was fired because of the decisions I had made during the election year. that didn't make sense to me for a whole bunch reasons. including their time. and all the water that are gone under the bridge since those hard decisions that had to be made. that didn't make any sense to me. and although the law required no reason at all to fire an FBI director. the administration then chose. to defame me and more importantly the FBI. by saying that the organization was in disarray. that it was poorly led. that the work force had lost confidence in its leader. those were lies. plain and simple. and I am so sorry that the FBI workforce I'd hear them and I'm so sorry that the American people were told them. I worked every day at the FBI to help make that great organization better. and I say help. because I did nothing alone at the FBI. there are no indispensable people at the FBI. the organization's great strength is that its values and abilities run deep and wide. the FBI will be fine without me. the FBI's mission will be relentlessly pursued by its people and that mission is to protect the American people and uphold the constitution of the United States. I will deeply miss being part of that mission. but this organization and its mission will go on long beyond me. and long beyond any particular administration. I've message before close for the my former colleagues in the FBI. but first I want the American people to know this truth. the FBI is honest. the FBI is strong in the FBI is and always will be independent. and now to my former colleagues if I may. I am so sorry that I didn't get the chance to say goodbye to you properly. it was the honor of my life to serve beside you. to be part of the FBI family and I will miss it for the rest of my life. thank you. standing watch. thank you for doing so much good for this country. do that good as long as ever you can. the senators I look for your questions. 
