transcript
this week on cue in a. journalist and author Christopher Hitchens. Christopher Hitchens what's it feel like to be. very much the same as it did to the 59. these are arbitrary dates in a way. Edmund Wilson wrote. an article called the author at 60 he wouldn't even say myself at 60 or Edmund Wilson's. review office. which I've I've I'm gonna read later on this week. days and that this. year round what's life I suppose I would add one thing I mean since you do ask. in a funny way I never expected live this long. and the even more strange. well I can remember when 30 C. veiled. and I was put in nearly 20. that thought kept on. decade by decade also I didn't used to get the blues some people to. as decades turned. with 60 the risk of it is you say aha I remember the first time I met Brian round. okay one sister and that was 28. it's a good thing com. I may not have another 28 to calm. that hits you a bit more than it did when you were 40. what is life like for you. present yeah well I'm writing a memoir so I'm having to go through all this anyway. and to gain great stretches of time. and the realization that. first I've seen more days I'm gonna see Seymour sunsets in dorms that. can live without I was knew that was true. I've been in denial that. . but if I didn't have. children to date things. very arbitrary. what makes it real is that. realizing that I have a son who once was on the show with me ma'am. Ike and he's 10 years old who will be accorded a central next. in the 25 years old what's he doing. he's working for a think tank in London. called the center for social. cohesion that of a mouth full name but it's essentially says that. Regis groups shouldn't make special claims that they should be in a national in common citizenship. without the denomination by. my face. you have 2 other children. I do have 2 doses of affected present. Sam the father of 2 teenage girls. but that'll change in September when Sophia will come 20. and perhaps even more dramatically. I'm Tony will become. what has been your. it's not heavy duty policy. but what has been your. kind of. mission with those 3 kids were argued what kind of father you bend.  prove the and different I suspect I mean I. I was feel that's. I'm I'm get better with children the older they get. I things for true love men. . so why would I. children the majority. striking thing that say about women is about both my lives. they knew what to do in babies. I don't know what to do. the very few men do they think. the. female thing. when they're little. when the anyone that growing.  I think spiritually abnormal extent with me as it was of my own father. he had a very noticeable to. build. so what I hope to do. redeem how little I was involved in the. to be. how and us proper mistaken force. as they become old. I think what. back to memoir from yes work where are you in that wins it do and how much time have you spent on it and what's your approach to it advice I spend all my time thinking about it quite a much time writing about difference about knees. I can always. spend time. and. with luck it will be turned into my publisher in the full. and that'll mean it'll be for some. bring over the summer. Syria. they give us the approach of. may I tell us one thing it's going to be in there that. we don't.  a contagious one I mean the theme is certain that all of. a divided self. I have got a title for it yet but if it was a pop song title it would be cool to them. both sides now. I've often felt myself exactly. split down the middle and I'm able to see which is an advantage both sides of the question. and also to take one side take it's only. but sometimes feel the temptation. to see it from the other as well. this is been the case. with other aspects of my life. finding out later in life that my mother was Jewish for example I had a second identity. spending quite a little time with a wife who was Greek and trying to become. parts. a member of another society language and culture another another looking for a second I don't see that taking pleasure in. in the few like having it both ways which. maybe it would be a good title for the. your first wife where you're married to a problem.  did give me hesitate on duty. because I was with her for longer than we were married. I know we got married the  moves and I states which was. the 81. and but we've been. team for long. Chris. and we were  separated nation 9 for a divorce to Europe to. and where she lived and I. in London. second life Carol blue. is blue. you met her where. in Los Angeles.  her native city. and Melissa. I was on a book tour.  what people say to me I just well I think about this the thought we were just having. you say is this a bit early to be doing. and I. you haven't said yet I don't look it but I knew you were going to send. . youth you suddenly think. yes maybe it is early but you can't wait that's right so if you ever going to do it. I want it way speaking of I look I'm gonna go back to 83 our first interview on book notes together. in 83 and houses yeah I want I want you to see what you look like let's that's right. because I'm accused of concealing it  let me say it now of this. if I haven't said already  I've always said I was a member the labor party in Britain that everybody. the socialist socialist international. that's the the family of such as parties that. comprises famoso mutual. the Sandinista movement in Nicaragua. the British labor party the Swedish social spot in many others.  I still consider myself a member of that political family and  I don't feel that. coming out with it on the areas as well confession it's just an affirmation if I'd known you were so interested in my private political views I've put them near the top of the show. today was **** knows it was I was a college radio yes  and that was one of the first times we talk about sort of just hit me where my friend . have a look at that deplorable young man what what what is I mean my same private political views should I should have been saying. the stuff in private about. there's a slip involve that formula. sorry you were saying and now I just dab that I do have a bone to pick with you will future shop Houston you promise me I'm senior along. promise me that when you. became an American city. that we would go to Monticello and I would interview there  Thomas Jefferson's home and I never heard. and you ended up to where did you go. I was very lucky I was invited to . take my oath of citizenship at the Jefferson memorial. but China's.  on his birthday their full thirteenth rituals Amaya. . though actually because he was born under the old code so by the time he died Spitz's. the petition is Heaney. Eudora Welty. and I I took a representative group of Americans.  but I thought it was for you to call me not me. well it's not too late I've been invited. to give the Jefferson. that should. check out of being. of time since I wrote my. why I hope week I'd really really like. Jacob. why. are you in. well for a long time. I live here with a green card. the patent great kata she one of the old ones that never run outside and have. had a European Union plan. 3 American children. life Willis  I thought I don't need to. no one is to change this. I go to the point where. when I came. it's a toss up for. through immigration. join the right line. citizens and. residents they'd say welcome home. that's what I felt. I'm it was off to 911 that I began to feel that I had paid full price that. but I was in a way cheating on my dues and that's for 2 reasons one. at that point. but afterwards United States began to subject to find time. on pain of film. slander and defamation. he would say. it's not true that the United States was attacked the American Jews blew up pulled his wages below the World Trade Center. well the bush administration David's arm. we were of the countries run by cowboy isn't  togs and. Jewish neo cons and I began to and feel really protective of the United States and I was another hearsay this. don't miss my country or talk about not so little that's actually true. so that was that was that and then I thought. because we're not gonna have to talk about war. and about fighting and fighting back. if I'm gonna stand. say that I think. we ought to be. . it forces. I think I probably should be someone who could in the last resort at least being so called upon to do so that you can be trusted if you get a green card. you can. of but it feels a little more solid to me. to be. because. the army hasn't been found yet Woodruff's. not even the good social. right. as a matter of principle and also that I should be voting. and eligible for jury duty. and all the other. both of duties and entitlements. so I didn't feel comfortable so I got that. done. you vote and this last election I did. up early. one tells a vote for I voted for the senator from Illinois. why. well  I'm not any longer a registered member of any possible I don't have any idea ideological. allegiance and on the bus. and in a way McCain's position on the war was more customer.  but I thought Apollo would learn more about the war. McCain's position. she rather eccentric. other abolish at such high in the right stuff on. I have to say. tomorrow. I thought he was. to . how do I put this without being implied to me too exhausted to be running for. and that his choice of running mate was. quite simply ridiculous. no much worse than. insulting.  I'm not serious I didn't think a serious vote could be cost for the Republican ticket. so that made that bush's.  and. then. I suppose I thought for a long time. the United States has been. ready for ages. will vote for. let's get this. I do things and have less power. all 3 have people saying things like oh the Bradley effect. will kick in. I even if the Bradley if it doesn't the polling machines we fix. the promotions on fixed and some all take a rifle and take the brother downs no no no. very interesting and impressive to see how easily it builds on how natural it seems. it lost. and though I didn't let him get as emotional moist about that some. it was an ingredient in making it pleasure to vote for. that plus I like him as a Russia should. I like the way he talks about what he writes on. pressed by. command of English which is. did you read as 2 books led to it. you think about though the first one is much better because it was written when he didn't know he was going to be a politician and the second one is written. under the willful knowledge that. now in play. but even given that you could tell he's written it himself. taking the risks of making various commitments. you have to be developed and his. got a sense of humor sense of irony.  and above really very ready admirable because. the language of the. if they were recording this. your name came up on the morning college. it did. before each show that clip are I I don't think I'd. ever expected you to be. fellow at the Hoover and. how did that happen. Stanford. politically how did that happen. well  do Hoover insurgents very very very serious about war and revolution that's what it is founded to consider. and war and revolution or contribution. the great subjects. well they never not but that. securely said it now. I've taken. I think a very forward for. she was very determined one. we are will. and that we wore the totalitarian enemy. and that's. because of our study must be. train. the older soldiers but citizens. a fight in the. a fellow. I'm what they call a media fest of this. I'm 5 minutes. the Roger Mets visiting for. he's alive. I go talk to. potential journalism. inside control but literature with people that. if you're sorry about politics to. but I regarded as one of the. academic intellectual arsenal. here mark faces  Hoover. tell a let's listen to what he said about it's my. he wondered what waterboarding to see what it feels like to prove it was torture in so doing he proved it was not torture. a common sense definition of torture is if you're willing to try it to see what it feels like it's not torture. so I told Christopher Hitchens I'm gonna pull your teeth that with the plier see what it feels like would you try it. he wouldn't try I said I'm gonna pull your fingernails off to see what it feels like to trot would you try it now you would try to put electrodes on your body and you could have put a few of the 0 or 1000 volts through your body would you try it now. yes I know he needs a mean there's another. trap door if you like underneath my. journalistic  investigation of food self description of what what he wishes I buy new when I went in that I could stop it today. I'm making a special signal tomorrow. tortures. but that was only one way I felt I could advance the argument. roughly speaking. for example in replacements. it's a. you've heard the same. sure. waterboarding simulates.  drowning. the feeling of Johnny doesn't do that ritual you lobbying for. slow motion.  everything in you immediately rebels against that. vital. ha. where is that is that the purpose like figure for that as you.  that is somewhere in the mountains of  eastern North Carolina with a group of people who. a team of people who have. had that say. field experience of the sword because I feel like right here when they're pouring water down will it feels as if you lost preface about to be drawn and they will hold you don't really have any choice then you have to everything rebels you have to. you have to make. . my second reply to miss this season would be at. yes now sag address and I think that's pretty much you know they say that some. how to check Muhammad. lost if someone like . 2 seconds I'd be very. unless he was trying to get us kill him. they also say a day of dead did its. yes. that that's. mark will. . the other 5 makes mysticism. because if he's making a serious one awful I was ready to do it again because I felt so bad. about having. lost it so little. I felt any Hitchens. a son of command Hitchins who will marry. should be able to stand up but. that's why I made the judgment that I lost a little this time. but. . but you can say again what if you could stand it. time is not. but the United States has always said. but any regime that uses on and on in America there it is torture. and that if we catch the person who did it ordered it will seek the death penalty and has done so.  several times. so that. of. it's not a matter of whether it's medieval or not. fingernail putting . the rack and so forth because if you allow these things if you say you must do the because is a ticking bomb source you about this thing. you must do it causes a ticking bomb the Gaza cherished. then what's to stop you say will bring on the red hot poker with kids. to put all this in a context. right now what what do you think of. where the Obama administration is on this the memos and and. you know what would you do about the past. well I'm at the same time I was taking my oath at the. Jefferson world governments and. I was a member of the. and and by the way with me was a young marine this witness on. a friend of mine who'd been at. I'm Bob province. crushing the life out of al Qaeda which turned out to be successful campaign. very proud to have been a supporter of it. the gentle Patras in the so. but the same time I was a member named. over lawsuit. brought by the American civil liberties union. against the national security association is an essay. I don't own really watch. I was one of the 8 plaintiffs. and it seems to me that that that's what I listen to it. that you have the right to when fat juicy to do that and to question the way the government is fighting a war. but will treat you as a citizen even if you're strongly in favor. of . every measure that's taken. resists in combat. terrorism. Islamization. and the. totalitarian regimes that have. the past. supported around written. so right now should. what should this town do about what happened in the bush administration. well. I mean I'm not a friend of the CI as you know that would have been the the young Hitchins who you just saw back then. the one with the fridge and. socialist. cat yeah I think it would have would have would I proud of what he was saying about this entrance urgency. this is an agency that. gave way Nelson Mandela's whereabouts and identity is a sign of completeness when they couldn't find. that if 25 years in prison about soon. but I did they elected to help some of the elected president of Chile. countless other horrible crimes in Greece. or why cypress elsewhere. not only that. visit criminal things. some. repeatedly told us that the Soviet Union was an economic superpower rush up Jewish in 9 that it was. entering its golden age and so during. but a fantastically successful 0 what was falling to pieces.  George tenet on the day of 911 said.  exercise aforesaid aboard the first thing ahead of intelligence said on that day was looking at the towers go down. the planes fly and he said damn. scores in Woodward's book directly. so as soon I hope it's not those guys from the flight schools in the Midwest. who he knew about. and hadn't done it. so they try to cover that traces. their failures. the betrayals but children Pete. so they can say Hey we got results this would not do we. someone has to go down for this I think. the one I would I would think the CI should be close to paddle to anywhere in. we started. acceptable to. proof by. well that was tied to my. since.  and then I will I think I have a special hatred for the the shady lawyers. which I'd think of excuses.  try to think of. tough big legal. reasons why we shouldn't on of the Geneva. and how those pasta on to men in the field. who under orders. but I I want I want it's I want to kind of fighting I'd been to Clinton. page up. of  I have a great was much worse on the Saddam Hussein on a. and there are many worse Cuban prisons on the other side of that line. the players will present that to. but that doesn't excuse us. want to go back to. program is not. to have any. snapshots of. 2 religions life. we have to suffer you to. you were on Scarborough country. a couple years ago at the night time. swatches. spring a little light do this  the it instead of all he let's bring a little like this conversation to talk about friends light because they  okay thank you so much like Boris Diaw I I do I will hold on a guy stop god bless his soul should stop and let's have a meaningful conversation if I set up the whole talking on top would be like I don't until they tell you clients. degrees our unit why don't why don't you let other beautiful talks emerged Sino que you advised not okay so what do I Madison tiles occur we know what Christopher I'll never make that mistake again mats here's here's Aquarian okay. merry Christmas and goodnight. your your reaction saying I think I left that I know that she walks out of that one I thought look. I'd have me on lost my view or dead but don't tell me what to say that somehow you think all the time. I got you corrected was discovering I'm proved himself. as a host. and this  again ad lib. talk show person. and he made no business today. and screw everyone give themselves permission to behave suddenly when religion is man. another. one of those who too by the way when we gonna mention my new paperback. the national. regardless. I would you gonna put the title and everything on the. what we're gonna say fine bookstores everywhere put it with good shortly we're gonna back in. a token white you see  had sort of it's another one of  and relative. on C. span's Washington journal the Hitchens brothers are back one on the right coast one on the left coast will start here on the right coast with Peter Hitchens. what do you make of all of this. well apart from all the laughing I've been doing  I'm beginning to feel that I've come out here perhaps a little too soon. it doesn't seem to be developing as fast as everyone in London thought it would it's filled me with a new respect for the American rise. I don't so now thought of them as rather than on Polish crew so the people who tour the country. calling for around. sexual abstinence among teenagers for example but now it seems that they couldn't. infiltrates a well heeled liberal bay from Beverly hills into the White House. get ready to see the president on this just as he's come from church with his daughter. get her into sievert and Jordan just the day before he signs an affidavit and get. him to get her into C. Revlon just the day off she signed. all the dotted line this is this is Jeannie is. talk about Monica Lewinsky at your brother Peter  ants that's well above the tie which I it's better not to wear one that well one like that. I think that's me at my best option. saying okay. if if you believe the liberal theory. Clinton was set up and that mark limits who was a stalker that's the sort of stuff you gonna have to. what's your relationship with your brother.  knocked out  he's. lego Hitchens as a man of principle.  able to turn a phrase in print and on the end . the main difference that we have. is that he's a. I would say born again he's a very decided. fundamentalists Christian. open up north of a fanatical sort but of a. very very decided very determined Episcopalian conservative sort. Tom and with people like that I can never be completely. and that he lives where he lives in Oxford. but he commutes regularly he lives between Oxford and London was. media basis and what was his reaction when you found out that your mother was your. well we found out partly because our grandmother my mother's mother. I had outlived of both my parents. they went to great day. and because Peter had managed to a Jewish. wife. when he took her to meet. not gonna. my grandma said urges Jewish's championships of bridled hasn't dumb. my grandma having no reason to keep the family secret any longer. what about some of which I. so you. so was Peter brought me the news. I think I was like I don't know why I say this but I have a feeling I was just very slightly more. please an interest. well among other things he. he and his Jewish wife both converted to Christianity. so it. it was but a bit more turning over the the luggage in their hold. the impossible. so your grandmother was you mightn't wife's judicial services which Ramaz duration. and then you're that would make your mother duration that yes indeed if it had what if you leave it on there if you believe in. by Zach will that overturned in the Nuremberg laws and I have problems is always circles but. yes it's a matrimonial. session and I would not. it said he never finds out about Jewish. with that said a voice was friendly or hostile a nose and. we're gonna be able to tonight want will get closer to your book on this clip was Anderson Cooper when you appeared on there and I talked about the death. follow. I'm. the event quite well. Sir I'm not sure if you believe in heaven but if you do do you think Jerry Falwell is in it. no and I think it's a pity it wasn't Helfand goes. what is it about him that brings up such vitriol. the empty life of this ugly little solace and proves any one thing. that you can get away with the most extraordinary offenses. to morality into truth of this country if you'll just get yourself called Reverend who would even to your network of invited on. such a little toad. tell us that the attacks of September 11 were the result of our sinfulness and with god's punishment if they hadn't got some kind of. clerical qualification people like that should be out in the street. shouting and hollering with a cardboard sign and selling pencils. from a Cup. I don't why was sitting in. on the little. you said you came on the television while it's the. downtown Manhattan was still smoldering the cellphone screeching under rubble. people still alive and he said this is because we allow divorce homosexual. the hell with them. you know I I what I went on to say is that if he could have been given an enema. you could be buried in a match but. that's what I didn't get time assailants. you have a good time signature. that's what I meant. how much what you see. this calculator. not I mean I means many evenings as being and it's not done for effect. but may not I don't say anything I know it's a very good question I also muscle of the time because I'm often. on the on the Chinese and on the radio and often have a book Sellin. I did one suspect myself of just being doing the doing things for effect.  if I ever go further than I mean to. I say something that. cheap or overstated I I always will try and come back and correct myself and say okay maybe that. I don't do things. for. we'll put you up depressing ellipses. no I was just I actually wanted I like to find a gift of phrases like ton and try and make it. stick make it memorable. I really want to ask you go wow when. there was an occasion worse you and someone else really were. I got the word mad doesn't describe it but you're furious with one another or you really had a confrontation that was personal and serious and deep. on the air only about anyway you know Justin and and life I mean people that watch television never know how much of it's a gimmick exactly and that's what we. that's why where 11 suspect consummate. . this will seem all a bit of a lawsuit like this I'm reviewing a book it presents them. of. SS by Henry fairly props you remember him. quite good. he was born essayists. the new Republican the. in the eighties. and he was great writer great polemicist I used to think that sometimes. he would fain. his anger. he would do you think I need to get a peace I need to get paid I need to I need to get out cool down. he would he would invent a subject. annoyed about. I just think that that will show. so. I suppose I have to submit myself. but I may not see your question. not my handwriting. but to the safe keeping of. of the good taste of the audience and if. if you read me and watch me if they think I'm doing this because I. splash. well there them time to think that. I would I would oversee suffer. a decline in respect.  I don't think. I give off the. I do this for. but but back to the other part of question no what's the biggest. most serious feud you've had with any individual. and that was real I mean that that they weren't phony and you weren't phony and it was. I guess it would be with with the. Henry Kissinger and his defenders. what I call tonight of the recent past. I read a book saying that I thought he should be arrested. she was to be convicted. crimes against. for war crimes. he. made a very crude replies to me on on television. saying. that I was everything from a Holocaust denier. to pursue trash Jackie Kennedy fat on both those charges as you know I I can't be indicted but. I eventually got his lawyers to sue a an apology. and I took it very seriously. no I hated him Haitian. I hate that. the Toadies. press. helps. hate them. hate him. and what what's that I caught I mean I feel it's an insult that. a person who. around. referred to is consulted his. treat with politeness in the account. by our profession. in the. the publishing and. I said I hear many. yes I met him 2 or 3 times he's never been induced to speak to me.  but his sometimes had to be in the same room need it with evident ill grace. I think no that's probably been for me the most. long lasting and deep go a. most. hate based. . relationship. you ask about this but we did not actually ask you on the program to talk about is I know you didn't but I'm not mad at you get one that's fine I just it's . how many copies in hardback yourself. I'm a lot about about 350000. you know and and the title is god is not great is now in paperback and what kind Celtics. there's.  I would have even. larger because the subjects deb has become even more cute them. I didn't broach it approaches. the battle between. civilization. feel Chris. every day much. the. number. com. now to a public debate on the. I go to. growing old time. the audience for the argument. well. I think. for 2 reasons one is religion is in a. if you. friends. or acquaintance. you know north a lot about them. depending on whether they attribute their presence in the studio to. the laws of biology. those of nature. those revolution and. selection or whether they think that they're here because of a divine. it's a big difference. philosophically morally. so going into this means you raise all of us interesting who has. basically. that's the first thing. so it's never boring discussion and second what should and the second is that. at the moment if you open the newspaper. see how the parties of god of behaving. the world everywhere from Russia to. Iran to even certain parts of. states where they think they. to influence educations. that people I think becoming fed up with being pushed around by.  or marine mammals who think that they are better than us because they have gone on this. enough with this it's very it's very it consulting's very threatening. stupid. coming. now we have the chance that. all clips it weaponry. a forged hands of messianic states organization. on again. forces. clear and present danger. did you ever believe in god. did your parents. yes they must've done at some point but I think my father prettiness. I don't know this was of course I I always have this doubt about people who even affirm that that. do they believe it will. to never have crossed. why do they have to keep on that church approved. you said it was I mean my father came from a very strong Baptist. he must when he was young. what a church. wouldn't Austin. Noah had with a one to one. they shouldn't oversee my children do not know. they have to. well known. but I would prefer that they did not. things are really good to have children should be able to make up their minds. but this will. hi Georgia I understood from. younger. goes to. well. they're not made to be quake where they ought to what about all the fates. so they make up their minds that's All I Want for. I would never dream of  imposing it on. on them and. did they really ought not to know what my beliefs are listen Silva of village reason. it's repulsive to me. to hear people saying you know who. sinister a Muslim child was killed or a Catholic child. killed in the. GoPro's. how do we know this about. what choice they have a. what I mean is. a child victim of a of a filthy religious war. skill. what show you a picture that . wasn't our first business book writer yes and I know if you remember that when I was still smoking yet that's in symbol expedite number of it it is near dupont circle and if you'll notice this is in the middle of the day. you've got your computer there you've got a martini on the bar and you get a certain amount and I got like . I don't know sumo wrestler. as well would you do that today. no I I had to give up smoking wouldn't have to admit I made myself go but to. what about the drink and with the booze. on a find it's a better. 7 that I must. well I actually. though. I say that in that tense. I've always thought this very poor but it. Hamas etcetera. you get more out of it the tickets. he is. I found out cold. interesting that makes other people less boring. great recommendation. some people caught right we'll talk. we'll do anything much when that has had a few drinks I. without both sentences that I can. sometimes I want. and beyond. an inspiration to me. and I know that it can I know this from friends and from religions. and from what you upsets in the. can be very bad touch.  but I have it's. as a I still think there's a friend and ally and notice a. the boss or a. for. how how do you rate this is that almost at Oak. question for classroom but how do you make your money. on it another words if somebody's watching saying boy I'd love to live the life. the musky now but when they you know I'd love to have that life of word yet writing and speaking and all that. how do you and can you make a decent living don't. you can if it's or you want. in other words once you've decided that we want to be as a writer. and once you've learned that we need really as it rises to be able to talk. speak. Gellar voice. many of my students say is that we need. I just feel to talk and I say yes but how many you can. how many of your friends to enjoy listening to. really do you join us and yourself. do you took time to open sentences. they they they were this is not so easy. once you discover the joy of that or my case. just the fact. I knew was what I could do it who. it doesn't matter. in mind when I first came on the show I made a few 0. but so. but I do it of soon. yeah I know I got a box come on our show you may do I know it's not a right of nothing moves that you to this day pay you with my use of even not impose my cap.  no but so I knew that does make you feel a few 0 Bucks. I thought of writing but it was what I want. so. it's not nothing to. now I do better than if you want exactly how to do it it's this .  that she fell to best magazine in the country the world defending speaking well. pays me of a monthly retainer. so right the McCollum. about 10 out of 12 months. and so I know I've got that much. it's not a fortune little but it's pretty generous. I can. and count on it. the contract is renewed every couple. . and they're they're fairly decent let him right from the P.. book reviews. and then it's got the stage now. with you what you pay me to come and talk to the. it's better than. have expert. to me I'm gonna be talking anyways. page to. how many speeches here would you get well since the religion debate got really going. but not. I would say it's poorly. twice a week. . and I do preventive. because. the liberation of Iraq for. that load time. Republican favor though through. and did you get paid for that. with this I'll give you a very 300 some. 0 copies of this. take a book to 3 Bucks a copy that's pretty. ms analyze that and then build the songbooks of John okay. but I used to box office poison for publishers. I wrote. and booksellers quite. proud of George Orwell was one I remember and it didn't really self. but all acceptable well fans. . right and then I yes thank you actually have allies on the rim. as knows it doesn't have a description from me insights. same to Angela with undying love or something. well I hate it when that happens what about your book I'm sure as they ate the causes countries where you go on Mother Teresa. that's how. both vessels about special at Christmas time.  dismissed time yes XO lapsed Catholic.  give it's the family.  Christmas on a regular basis and every year it's the gift that keeps on. good. and then I touch each region Hoover. and and I move visits interests of the new school in New York I love doing that. I really do. I learned a lot from teaching vessel point. you go through a book with you because you think you're ready at 52. 50 first time he'll always stoner to some. you wouldn't notice before you never do it the same. she's a rise. your wife for I wish it page. more teaching was better paid than it. that was close or that I had to have 3 children. because I'd love to spend more time. does your wife for. screenwriter. which is you know. you're never quite sure. so the script on. the things that was in play. Asian Angelina. I have a question that will . you know I know you're not expecting this. I did it and that is expected and I I don't but we didn't know this was. drop it sure hasn't but. have you ever gotten. on your. no. you mean. I cry when I hear much over RPDs yet you have never looked. I I did serve much anyway. just one I I got on and it's 28 pages long. and but and you know how this works. no this is an area I'm very poor out there several websites. I know about me. I just had this wikipedia when there's a there's a website for the law school. is what shows. windows on friendly to me there's another one that is more friend. I. I don't have time. swimmers I ask you this is because when you Google the name Christopher Hitchens. are you global anybody's name more than likely the first couple of. of  places to go is wikipedia and wikipedia's written by almost anonymously by maybe in your case hundreds of people right. I got I found your first wikipedia site.  and you were first up least according to what I could find on the records. in 2003 wikipedia 7 years all I just wanted you to hear what people said. 76 years ago 5/18/2003 first item. Gretchen's. see we have you readers don't know who wrote this. but it's a it's a just if we go in I would say that when I look at wikipedia myself. on a topic I know something about I generally find it so maybe giving a hostage to fortune. I don't find it amazing you level. it's not a question of reliability question they can characterize you here and I just want I want to read with a freezer that back in 2003 what they said. what they whoever they are. Christopher Hitchens is a British born American journalist author and self proclaimed political gadfly. well let me go for tango okay but here we are you know  never said what this is this week in wikipedia and then I discerned would've. so the wrong right there okay but well that's changed or how does one get a correction. well let me read you what is today that are gone veto backings. today it's as Christopher Eric. born 4/13/1900. 9 is an author journalist and literary critic. now we don't. well current going but uncle Jewish I don't currently living in Washington DC has a bit of an economist at Vanity Fair the Atlantic world affairs. the nation's slate free inquiry. in a variety of other media outlets. and it goes on and this is it yet talks about your book god is not great now what then to get status as in 2009 Hitchens was listed by Forbes magazine as one of the quote 25 most influential liberals in the U. S. media. the same article noted though that he would quote likely be aghast to find himself on this list unquote and that he quote styles himself as a radical unquote not a liberal. how we doing. sewerage believes it's getting to the point where. you getting published if you have a publicist. which. it is. to me.  cyborg. well it's a this too much of this stuff you know Mayo. it's it's old so rep reputation about your reputation. often wikipedia as on the dude being exciting boring because you have so many people get their hands the pie on this it really does say that they might as well say there's a perception that rolls in through the following is the case well because I do a Consuelos. well I know there is it goes on for ever and ever and I just you know I was and. one was so life for them.  but he allowed his.  they have the different categories. literary review. Hitchens in the nation staff. and then they quote one of your old friends Alexander Cockburn. what what's your relationship with him now. she lives on the since his. beautiful nieces wedding officiated the wanna go. we've seen a lot of each other but. we live on remotely. coasts. no in California and. I'm up on about the third page of wikipedia is that fourth page it says among its most severe critics as one time calling for. Coburn a weekly contribute to the nation on August 22 5 Coburn wrote. what it truly disgusting sack of you know what. Hitchens. as another 4 letter word yeah the guy who called sid Blumenthal one of his best friends and then try to have him thrown into prison for perjury. a guy who waited until his friend Edward say he was on his death bed before attacking him in the Atlantic monthly a guy who knows perfectly well that  the role Israel plays in US policy but it is not  scruple to flail Cindy. she Han as a larouche she and an anti semite because maybe she dared mention the word Israel. good you need he's. nearly right but that I mean the sock golf citrus better if. of. anyone's opinion but. on the . because of its size age I didn't publish them. when he was on a set there's .  exception that I kept on publishing. and we had him I had a couple of logs to. realism. those didn't change what he was ill and they'd intended change after he died when I. published so if. the estimates of him. I thought very generous one. include the criticism. that section of the city of Alexander. to say that I think because if you look at his journalism he would rightly be proud of saying that's. he's often written counter **** who is of people who can have praised. chosen precisely the moment when that the slow sentimental. garbage being published to say come on this guy wasn't so great so it. so it had to. he gives a hostage to fortune and. an alternate vixen issue in a courthouse in the law.  on slate you can check it out. . it's it was exhaustively done with all kinds of. she had said she thought her son was killed in a. a pro Israeli war war war Jewish war first. she has tried to pretend she hadn't said. and so a quarter. I called her twice. it's. I think it's beneath Alex on. to be. and in. someone has to. and demagogic because her. who who remembers now. and what if we listen to her. if we listen to her and pulled out our troops and other users of her hysteria. and route would now be run by al Qaeda. and we as thou cut it could have claimed to have driven us out and ignominy and shame. said which al-qaeda's been defeated and humiliation. and Iraq is at least on course to become. many shells ahead of us a decent society no one no one could possibly wish. by the way I'll be glad to let you. 20 pages long with the longest it that I've seen. so they're defining you and when you go out to speak. surprise offered you might be introduced with. permission is contained in. yes will. 00 they're mine but I mean now that's. this YouTube knows who's. it's hopeless to. even want to in effect foreshadowed. won't have any control level ones and. let me ask you a hard time remaining yet what what. . in your historian you've looked. talk about the world and where do you fit 911. and events that happened in world history. I mean how would how this is gonna fit. 25 years. I think it'll sits with a couple of other events. . one that to me gets more more significant. so in this way way also very kindly have. 14 to February of 1989.  fiato committees fought against someone rushed a. there's a new book by Michael command Malik. and also in Britain about about the fatwa against Rushdie. and it's cooled from fatwas a G.. I think that. the hinge moment in history the time when things were turning. a cultural way stuck with. is somewhere between. Asian 9 into the. a a wing of his. such an arc that. decided that it was war. and that it took a little time for us to. cover that we would want to. but the history does turn. slid in that there aren't. when you have a moment to like. Sarajevo in 1940. say you'll. some of power. flash of wood or the best yields of national. we will. Lexington. what these flashes illuminated is a scene that's already been Pat. already been set. those that that's the way I think to be a story. would look at things. one of the questions that I I know I used to love to get the audience's reaction to is. I honor Colin show is America the greatest country in the world. or is how would how would you answer with Spiro Agnew's post of said the greatest nation in the country. something I go dell has wonderful take on this. . it's something to be . proven role in stages. we demonstrated. for. but yes I would say in the sense. so when he usurped you check priming color of Leuschner. good and some of us who study callow reasons but anyway I'm not ashamed of it. the west the Russian Revolution not go. the Chinese revolution us mutations. Cuban Revolution is more bonded. the French Revolution well that was it what did have a great. effect on the Latin but it was. and I wouldn't denigrate it's French. the American revolution. the one that says. build your public on. individual rights not group right. have a bill of rights that describes these. available legible to ever put.  separate the Chechens. separate executive the judicial.  brunch. do all these things. it doesn't sound like much but it's really very revolutionary idea. it's hardly a country in the world that wouldn't benefit. from adopting this principle. I think that gives rise to it's a really good time. to be a revolution a country as well as close. Pat docentes. so. so it makes me very glad. we're proud to become so. flag internal power. that is the flag of Kurdistan. the Kurdish people of the largest. the. people in the world not just. ethnic group if you like loves nation.  the debt of state. the gods are in Kuwaiti royal families. have a seat at that evokes the United Nations. the Kurdish people who perhaps as many as 35 to 40000000 don't have any different representation at all but they are a big part of a free Iraq. so I I wear the flag is a so. the solidarity with the revolution Routledge. remove Saddam Hussein defeated tell Qaeda and is trying to build a Republic. we've got just about a minute left are you always travel. where's your next trip.  I don't know. so it was a boring answer. my last job was to Athens maybe that special. combat. to write something about the new acropolis museum. the greatest need museum. for a long time. in New York. yep and on. I saw a surge. contain all the sculpture. treasury. then the other temp. a person. it will it has room for only stolen. sculpture. and by that britian terrorists like William. to be given back so we can see how or what skulltulas symmetrical and supposed to see. and I've done a. Vanity Fair about. how wonderful it will be when we can seal. I suppose I better met. it's in this book one more time as you feel good god is not great how religions poison everything by Christopher Hitchens.  we are out of fine bookstores everywhere and and and thank you for. though it was a pleasure. as always. for DVD copy of this program called 1-877-662-7726. for free transcripts or to give us your comments about this program visit us at culinary.org. Q. NA programs are also available as C-SPAN podcast. 
